Video is the Java Media Player application used for viewing or saving video data in several formats. The Java Media Player is automatically launched once you select the 
Audio/Video menu option from the 

Applications menu. This is the default unless you select the Audio option to customize your environment.

Audio is a CDE Motif application for playing, recording, or saving audio data in AU (Sun), WAV (PC), or AIFF (Macintosh) format.

Use the Java Media Player for viewing multimedia files. The Java Media Framework (JMF) is an application programming interface (API) for incorporating media data types into Java applications and applets. It is specifically designed to take advantage of Java platform features.

You can open a video file by choosing Open file from the File menu. Once you open a file, the main window alters to display the file and a control panel at the bottom of the screen.

The control panel consists of the following icons and their respective functions:
All Audio functions start with the main window. Open an audio file by choosing Open from the File menu; record by choosing New from the File menu and clicking the Record Audio button; set startup, recording, or playing options by choosing the appropriate item from the Options menu. 

The Voice Note control is located on the Applications subpanel of the Front Panel. When you click the Voice Note control it runs the Audio application, which immediately starts recording from your host's microphone. To stop recording, you click the Stop button or exit the Audio application. 

The sound file that is created is displayed on your desktop when you exit the Audio application. You can remove it by choosing Remove From Workspace from the right-mouse button popup menu. You can remove it from your file system by deleting it from your home directory.

I just started a dot.com. I
just ran java
com.sun.tmc.segmenters.Segmenter_en.ViewCollections
test.txt.

He can be reached at
john.smith@sun.com.

He watched "E!" channel.

There is a Jos. A. Banks
clothes store on Newbury St.

He worked at Smith Corp.
"U.S. News reports that he
was a model employee," said
the anchor.

She prefers the title MS. and
don't forget it!

He saw a 600-lb. gorilla.

He flew at 500 m./h. and
really high.

He had a Ph.D. from UCLA.

His name was R. J. Smith,
Esq., and don't forget it.

I bought fish, fruits, etc.
Do you want some?

Use a period ("\.") to
indicate end of sentence.

With $15.7 billion in annual
revenues, Sun can be found in
more than 170 countries and
on the World Wide Web at
http://sun.com.
The company's next generation
allows for digital video
recording as well as voice,
video and data services over
Ethernet, 802.11b Wi-Fi
wireless and
HomePNA-over-Coax.
Add "Tech." to abbreviations. -  Would handle "Centennial Tech. PM50003 (CT 14.4 Fax/Modem)."

Party's Name: (No. 1) Provide full company name, to include person(s)
providing and receiving the information on behalf of the Party. In the
case of a multi-division or multi-location company, clearly indicate
whether the CDA applies to the entire company or a specific division or
location, e.g. XYZ Inc. or XYZ Inc., Division 1, Palo Alto, CA.
This is   the first sentence.

This is a test. (Can the
segmenter handle parens?)
This is a new sentence.


Effectively, the starting
point could be an
implementation priced a as
little as $40,000. Through a
phased approach, these
initial investments are
usually scaled to connect
several geographically
distant facilities and data
centers.

A: Companies already
collaborate internally among
business units and externally
with suppliers and partners
using face-to-face meetings,
faxes, phone calls and
email.

Service Listings describing
the Product or Service to be
delivered by Sun and Customer
obligations relating to such
Products or Services are set
forth at:
http://www.sun.com/service/servicelist/index.html.

Some 300 improvements,
including new security tools,
additional integrated
applications and a wider
range of system configuration
tools, will be included in
Solaris 9, which will be
unveiled May 22. Among the
key upgrades are the tight
integration of Sun ONE
Directory Server 5.1, Solaris
9 Resource Manager and
Solaris Volume Manager into
the operating system core,
adding new capabilities for
systems administrators to
have further control of
applications and hardware for
improved performance.



Sun announced general
availability of StarOffice
6.0 software, the full-
featured office productivity
suite that runs across
multiple platforms, including
Linux, Solaris and Windows on
May 21. StarOffice 6.0
software provides customers
with an economical
alternative to proprietary
office productivity suites
that are expensive and have
restrictive licensing
policies.


The StarOffice 6.0 office
productivity suite (branded
StarSuite in Asian markets)
retail offering has a U.S.
Manufacturer's Suggested
Retail Price of $75.95.
Education customers pay only
for the cost of the media
(CD-ROM) and shipping.

At the conference, Scott
McNealy pledged to put a
billion dollars into Linux at
Sun. With this announcement,
Sun established three goals
for the coming year: Sun will
ship for the first time a
full implementation of Linux
on a new line of
general-purpose servers (code
named Big Bear) aimed at
providing "edge" services to
environments such as
workgroups and remote
offices.


This JumpStart! will help you
get familiar with Sun's grid
computing vision and industry
coverage of grid computing,
as well as direct you to some
technical and community
resources on grid computing
structures, and Linux is
gaining ground in the battle
to win mindshare among IT
managers.

He works at Sun. So does
she.

Since a trademark is not a
noun, it must never be used
in possessive form. For
example, one would not refer
to "Java's features" but
rather to "...the features of
the Java[TM] technology" or
"the Java[TM] technology's
features."

Licensees under certain
commercial license agreements
with Sun, including those who
have passed the certification
testing for Sun's 100% Pure
JavaTM program, may be
granted express permission to
name their products using the
"XYZ for JavaTM" format. If
you are a commercial licensee
and wish to use the "XYZ for
Java" format, please contact
Sun Microsystems Marketing
(marketing@java.sun.com) for
a license. [Note: the "Java
for XYZ" format is not
permitted at all.]

C.The Java mark appears in
many of the license
agreements as all upper case
(JAVA). This capitalization
is a result of conventions
for writing legal documents
and is not correct for
general usage. Correct
capitalization is "Java[TM]"
followed by an appropriate
noun such as "technology" or
"platform".

Communicates across public
and private X.25 networks
with other systems running
X.25; can be used with both
leased and dial-up lines.
Is is possible to skip a sentence (e.g., if the user does not agree with checker error message)?

Do you like fish (i.e., salmon)?

Do you like fish (viz., salmon)?

When a letter cannot be delivered, the file is also copied to a file in
your home directory named dead.letter.


The Thread.stop, Thread.suspend, and Thread.resume methods are deprecated as of JDK 1.1.

Applications that use the old com.sun.java.swing* names for these
packages from Swing 1.0 do not work in the Java 2 SDK for Solaris
platform. Update these applications to use the new java.swing package
names.

Default is r!all.

An ! (exclamation point) prefacing an entry disallows access, while no preface allows access.

For the C shell, the PATH variable is specified in your .cshrc file (in your home directory) using the following syntax:


If you want to back up to an intermediate rlogin connection, use two
tildes followed by a period ( ~~.) as follows:


You can mount (or link from /net/. . .) the AnswerBook package to
/usr/dt/share/answerbooks/ language.

Use the comment begin marker ( <!--) and end marker ( -->) as
shown:


            Two frequently used wildcards are asterisk ( *) and question mark ( ?). The * matches any string of
characters (including no characters), and ? matches any single
character. Other wildcards include:
. (period)-matches any character
| (vertical bar)-specifies two search patterns and matches either
pattern (logical OR) ( ) (parentheses)-encloses a pattern
expression.

These are actually Group 3 Fax (T.4) format images.
LDAP_SYN_FAXBUTTON is used to provide a button (or equivalent interface
element) that can be used to retrieve, decode, and display an attribute
of photo syntax. 


4800/2400bps leased line (V.27bis)

Incompatible Change Major release (X.0)
BIOS Version GG.06.13 does not support LBA access.

standardized through X.400 Application Programming Interface

See the ISO ASN.1 (ISO 8824).

Refer to the /usr/share/man/man5/iconv_locale.5 manual page in the

ftp account required /usr/lib/security/pam_unix.so.1

DNS name or an X.500 name can appear after the

Minor x.y Compared

My.Sun

Sun.Net.

Access.Sun.Net.
